---
title: Phd Thesis 项目
date: 2022-10-03 21:39:25
permalink: /pages/44aeb4/
categories:
  - BQ
  - Stories
tags:
  - 
---

*Describe a long-term project that you managed. How did you keep everything moving along in a timely manner?*


**Situation / Task**
- School research project - building intelligent support for creative, open-ended programming.
	- Very open-ended project: 
		- lots of routes to take, 
		- have no idea how much time each is going to take. 
		- I am responsible of the time, the pacing, and everything. 
		- Supposed to last my entire phd time, so it's easy to make too big or unrealistic of a plan and unable to complete it. 

	- Lots of people. 
		- advisor
		- collaborators from other labs, 5
		- I reached out to a German research lab who are doing similar research. There's about 12 people in the lab but I work closely with 5 of them. 
		- teachers who help us run studies: 3 per semester, one big summer camp each summer
		- masters and undergrad students

**Action**
- Planning: 
	- long-term plan, revisit every semester
	- short-term plan: take it paper by paper. Month by month. 
- People:
	- understanding their needs and goals:
		- everyone needs different things from collaborating on this project. The only way to keep them all motivated and willing to help is to keep them interested, help them get what they need from this project.
		- e.g., undergrads: goal is to learn and work on interesting programming tasks. 
		- junior PhD students: goal is to learn and collaborate on an research.
	- deliver projects that makes sense to them. 
	- keep them motivated, also keep myself motivated when there's setbacks (e.g., something not working as expected. )

**For example,**, refer to achieve goals. (the next question)



**Result**
- I have published 9 first-authored, 4 co-authored papers in my project.
	- one best paper award
	- Each paper is in itself a some-what long-term commitment, so I'm happy to talk about some of them in detail - if you are interested. 
- I have discovered many interesting findings in my research. For example:
	- planning makes the most difference
- I have applied many ML  methods to my area:
	- the first testing framework for visual, interactive programming languages / environments. 
	- execution trace based feature engineering. 

