---
title: Pinpoint 项目 (说过了)
date: 2022-10-03 21:41:39
permalink: /pages/e1482f/
categories:
  - BQ
  - Stories
tags:
  - 
---


## **Situation / Task**
When I was working on  my PhD work, during my second year. , one of the goals I had was to build a code search software, so that students can read a piece of code backwards,

- draw trajectory to view code that is relevant to a certain

相关人物： 
- project lead: me
- advisor
- collaborators from my lab, junior phds, starting off by helping senor phd on a project. 


### challenges:
- we thought it's a ML project, as everyone in my lab comes from a ml background, instead of a program analysis, software engineering background. 
	- 讲作为ml问题的input，output
	- 讲我们用ml做了多少努力，但是准确率还是不高
	- however, 用ml解决不了，因为数据太少了

**sub-action**
- I showed the data 
	- from the easiest to the most complex ML model, they don't do well.
- I talked about my idea
	- I've written down a 1-year plan. 
	- I made a presentation, and discussed 3 papers that can came out of this research 
		- I discussed the people that we can involve into this work. (masters, junior phds)
		- I showed similar work in SE area
		- I talked about collaborative opportunities with a german lab who does this. 

- they decided to go ahead working on both. While I'll be in charge of the programming analysis approach, I should help another student (Yang) on the ML part. 
	- I think this, although this is a compromize, I understand the thoughts and ideas behind it,
		- as it's possible
		- other people need to graduate
	

backbone requirements: 

- - Disagrees with peers and supervisors using data to thoughtfully explain counter-arguments  
- Stands up for what he/she believes is in the best interest of the company and the customer  
- Advocates clearly and passionately for beliefs  
- Openly supports and commits to decisions that have been made, even if not originally in agreement  


## **Action**

### Backend:
- backend: it needs lots of program analysis infras that I didn't have yet. 
	- In order to understand the chain of code that's responsible or related to a certain piece of code, [program slicing], we need:
		- a dynamic analysis framework, where we know which piece of code is responsible for certain output.
		- a static analysis framework, where we can find the program dependency graph and the control flow graph. 


- because we are using snap, a visual, interactive programming language, - where the primary use of this program is to build games,
	- it gets different comparing to java, where there are existing libraries that does static and dynamic analysis. 
	- so the first step is to build those program analysis infra's . 

- From lots of litterature search I found a lab in a German university doing similar things. 
	- So I reached out to them and started working on the program analysis infras together. 
	- This actually led to 4 projects that I work with them. 2 of them was led by me and 2 of them was led by them. 
		- And of course, 4 papers came out of this the first year after. 
	- And we finished building all of the static and dynamic analysis infras that's needed for the next work - which is actually making a student-centered software. 

细节见 [whisker project ci cd 项目](/pages/c04ad9/)

### Frontend
For the front-end, I needed to build a software where 
- play mario, replay, ..., see code. 

I did the following:
- I used two months to finish the first prototype, tested it with 3 students, they all suggested very interesting things:
	- auto-generate timestamps (e.g., this is when mario starts jumping! This is when mario his boomba)
	- auto-generate code slices (some code slices are more oftenly required than others, e.g., (same as above)). When..timestamp, meanwhile, generate code slice. 
	- lots of user experience suggestions - making it load faster, etc. 
	- no instruction experience - how to make it so that they can work through it without using instructions. 

- another month for second prototype, 8 people testing
- another 2 weeks for the final prototype, then ran a controlled study, then writing paper. 


## **Result**
- 5 papers. 
	- 3 first-authored, 
		- One best paper. 
	- 2 co-authored, one is a journal paper
	- Finished them in 2 years. 
- students said very positive things:
	- participants discussed that the slider bar “makes it  a lot easier finding certain codes”, as alternatively in  Snap!, 
		- “you may have to search through ... each sprite, to ...  find code”.
	- it basically changes the  scope, like instead of having to read through the whole code,  
you can just zoom in on the specific piece you want and look  at that.”
- “I prefer ... looking at [Pinpoint] where the code is divided up. ... I think it is easier to look at how stuff are related that way, instead of just looking at it line by line.”





## Takeaway:

