---
title: Phd 项目 open-ended programming
date: 2022-10-03 21:41:48
permalink: /pages/afd1a9/
categories:
  - BQ
  - Stories
tags:
  - 
---

## Background

### 时间
phd second year

### 项目内容

- snap, block-based programming, interactive
- supporting closed-eneded programming: hints, code examples
	- e.g., in assignments sorting problem, or draw a circle shape, e.g., in snap
- direct lineage of my advisor's research 

### 人物
- 我的任务: project lead
- 别的人:
	- advisor: 
	- master and some undergraduate students
	- some other professors who are on the same grant (also advising me)

## Challenge of old project
- saturated space, people start working on this since long ago, 1970s intelligent tutoring system
- lack of data, 200-400 pieces of data, although there's deep learning
- students don't feel lack of support - the hints we are giving are good enough. students finish their assignments without much difficulties in the classrooms we work with


## inspiration for the open-ended project
- volunteered a high school saturday programming event - called FLAMEs
	- novice students
	- 5 consecutive weekends
	- learn snap programming for the first 3 weeks
	- last 2 weeks, build 2 open-ended projects, compeltely 
		- big variety: racing game, ping pong, home design, cloth change / makeup change game, jump one level at a time ...
		- students are very happy 
		- project based-learning, learn programming actively while trying to do something
		- ownership - they do something that they designed, build, themselves. 
		- sense of accomplishment, confidence, empowering students to feel that they could  use computing/coding to do things they want to do in the world

- this is what I want to do:
	- opportunity to bring more diversity, equity and inclusion into computing education:
		- we don't force them to solve a dull algorithmetic problem, we let students choose what's interesting and meaningful for themselves
			- a student wrote a black history story animation using snap. 
		- in doing that we helped them assure / claim / advocate their own value, what they believe to be meaningful, what they want to do. 
		- help them connect computing with things they want to do in the world. I remember a girl who whated to go to healthcare in college, built a covid, hospital game/system in a summer camp. 
		
	- students encounter challenges
		- there are things they want to do but don't know how:
			- how to make an actor jump
			- how to make the dog move its tails naturally:
				- lots of math/algorithms: geometry, program acceleration, etc

	- except some very theoretical, educational theory paper on project-based learning, there's no prior work that discuss how to support open-ended programming in computing. 

- so there's both lots of research opportunities, and lots of research splace

## Action
- I've written down a 3-year plan, sent a text form and presented it to our lab in a presentation
	- what are the challenges students encounter when doing open-ended programming
	- can we automatically generate support to overcome those challenges
	- what are the impacts of the auto-generated support. 

- lots of people with different expertise can be involved: 
	- what are the challenges students encounter when doing open-ended programming
		- qualitative research, observational, field study
	- can we automatically generate support to overcome those challenges
		- ML perspective
		- program analysis perspective, first framework in snap program analysis
		- code search research:
			- drawing to find code examples, later my thesis
		- game research people, game machanics, narratives
		- creative planning. 
	- what are the impacts of the auto-generated support.
		- human subject research
		- statistical analysis. 

- it brings everyone together, and it is a beautiful vision - we all want to build tools that opens up more space for creativity, for equity and inclusion. 

- I helped my advisor to write an entire new proposal

## Results
- 直接结果： 项目/论文
	- 	- they ended up to be and 12 and 2 on the way.  5 of them was done by me and the rest were done by lots of PhD students in other labs that we collaborated with. 
	- all of what I've proposed have become papers. 
	- one of them become my core thesis project and I'm ready to graduate because of this. 
- collaborator feedback/future step
	- we are currently working on an extension of the grant because there's so many new things we could do on top of this. 
	- many new phds have joined this project and work on different sub-component of this. 
- client(e.g.,student, teacher) feedback/future step
	- we build lots of outreach relations
		- partner with 4 local high schools
		- work with every intro programming courses
		- every year there're hundreds of students using our tools/programs


## Takeaway

think big: 

