---
title: 带学生 take students
date: 2022-10-03 21:43:22
permalink: /pages/fd8e20/
categories:
  - BQ
  - Stories
tags:
  - 
---

*Tell me about a decision that you regret.*

**Situation / Task**

- in 2021 summer, I was working with two undergraduate student in the summer
- one of them was fine earlier on, but gradually becomes no longer accountable - he gradually cannot finish work that he commited to do, and starts to not attending meetings, 
	- answers slack from after a day, to two days, to no longer answering slacks. 

**Action**

- I was afraid of conflicts, so I only slacked him to ask if he is ok, and when we meet in zoom (it was a fully remote summer research program) I asked him if he was ok.
- He came off not very direct or straightforward and only responded that he was fine. I did not know what to do so went ahead and let it be. 

for the works I assigned him, since he wasn't able to finish them on time, or just finish them, I did all of them myself. 

**Result**

- I talked with my advisor about it about a month after wards (he's busy)
- he told me I should have worked harder on him - I should have communicated clearly my needs, and understand his needs better
	- tell him what is not acceptable
	- understand what is it that he may be blocked on
		- lack of interest: change lab
		- feeling sick: we should know.
		- wanted to do it but just don't have lots of momentum because of working from home issue: then host online working sessions, etc. 

- I did it accordingly in the fall when I was working with another student. She also becames a little bit off in the middle or later half of the semester.
	- (they are not paid)
	- she told me she did not finish some work during midterm because of busy school work, but then she felt bad and was afraid that I might be hard on her - so she no longer attend meetings.
	- I told him that not finishing them was fine, and we could adjust work subject or work load to find things that interests her the most. 

