---
title: Covid 2020 summer camp(说过了）
date: 2022-10-03 21:43:43
permalink: /pages/18d064/
categories:
  - BQ
  - Stories
tags:
  - 
---

## Background
- working with summer camps in summer 2020 - summer of my first year phd - things became fully virtual. but all of my materials were prepared for in person. 

- 1-month camp

## Challenge
issues:
- we partner with teachers - we provide the material for them, and come to the camp for a day or two for guest lecture and lead student activities, but they are in charge. 
	- They decide whether we run a study or not, how we run it. In return we could use their students' data for paper writing - of course with IRB (Institutional Review Boards) approval
	- In March teachers feeling they wanted to cancel the camp because of uncertainties in a virtual camp.


I want to pursuade them to give me a chance, but there are a couple challenges
1. submit a new IRB for online study. approval takes at least a month. 
	1. amendment
2. I don't have students to help. When we develop the camp material there were 3 of us, but know there is only me. the rest are no longer working with our lab during that spring. 
3. pushing for a camp to run risk lots of people's benefits and welfare
	1. teachers have family priorities in covid time. so I may need to be the teacher myself. 
	2. camp organizers are responsible for the students. bad experience led to bad reputation


however, potential benefits include ....

My advisor was out of office for the entire week. 

after considering all the risks and benefits, I first ran a very very tiny pilot to figure out how much time i need to complete a material for 1 day's study (details later)

I next felt that completing these materials before may is possible, so I asked the teacher to hold off deciding, give me 2 weeks, I'll send them 50% of the materials then, and show them about how I'll organize them the camp

after 2 weeks, I sent them all the materials




## Action

- middle schoolers and high schoolers, how to keep them engaged. 
- many group discussions - how to make students in breakout rooms discuss more happily

**Action**
That was during the spring semester of my first year phd. At that time originally I was preparing for a paper due in May, but because of the fully virtual summer camp I had to spend also half of the time preparing for the camp study materials. 

- finish a first draft plan
- test with students I could find
- rehearsal with another student in front of the camp teachers.
- Found the following:
	- instruction needs to be a lot more detailed
	- make videos ahead of time.
	- recruite volunteers for each breakout room.
	- material needs to be very interesting
	- lots of break time - from one every hour to one every 45 minutes


## **Result**
- camp successful. Me and my major collaborator - another student from another lab each finished one paper for our work. 
- **teachers** happy and said happy to work with us again. 
- ***students*** said lots of positive things.
	- feeling increased confidence in programming
	- feeling that they would definitely consider CS in their college
	- saying that working with other students during this summer camp increased the fun. 
	- and said that they shared the awesome games they've built with their parents. 


## takeaway
- Moves quickly on a project, even when some information is lacking  
- Understands when to consult with others and when it's not necessary  
- Willing to make small progress toward a solution rather than finding the perfect solution right-away  
- Deals with problems quickly so others can make progress  
- Carefully considers what is important to get done right-away and what can wait  
  
