---
title: Covid 2020 summer camp
date: 2022-10-03 21:43:43
permalink: /pages/18d064/
categories:
  - BQ
  - Stories
tags:
  - 
---

**Situation / Task**
- working with summer camps in summer 2020 - things became fully virtual. but all of my materials were prepared for in person. 


issues:
- we partner with teachers - we provide the material for them, and come to the camp for a day or two for guest lecture and lead student activities, but they are in charge. 
	- They decide whether we run a study or not, how we run it. In return we could use their students' data for paper writing - of course with IRB (Institutional Review Boards) approval
	- teachers feeling they wanted to cancel our study because of uncertainties in a virtual camp.

- middle schoolers and high schoolers, how to keep them engaged. 
- many group discussions - how to make students in breakout rooms discuss more happily



**Action**
That was during March and April 2020. At that time originally I was preparing for a paper due in May, but because of the fully virtual summer camp I had to spend also half of the time preparing for the camp study materials. 

- finish a first draft plan
- test with students I could find
- rehearsal with another student in front of the camp teachers.
- Found the following:
	- instruction needs to be a lot more detailed
	- make videos ahead of time.
	- recruite volunteers for each breakout room.
	- material needs to be very interesting
	- lots of break time - from one every hour to one every 45 minutes


**Result**
- camp successful. Me and my major collaborator - another student from another lab each finished one paper for our work. 
- **teachers** happy and said happy to work with us again. 
- ***students*** said lots of positive things.
	- feeling increased confidence in programming
	- feeling that they would definitely consider CS in their college
	- saying that working with other students during this summer camp increased the fun. 
	- and said that they shared the awesome games they've built with their parents. 


