---
title: Whisker Project CI CD
date: 2022-10-03 21:53:10
permalink: /pages/c04ad9/
categories:
  - BQ
  - Stories
tags:
  - 
---
## Background
 - a dynamic analysis framework, where we know which piece of code is responsible for certain output.
- building a static analysis framework, where we can find the program dependency graph and the control flow graph. 
	- reachability analysis
	- detecting bugs
	- do modern-day MLs on those structural information
- a german lab, I'm the only student in the US side
	- masters: 1
	- phds: 2


## Challenge
- lots of routes to take to begin with
- lots of code to write
- we are not experienced. 


## Action
write clear design docs and send them to the german lab's advisor (in SE area) to review. 

layed great foundation, for example, we decided to heavily rely on visitor pattern in the entire tree parsing. 
	

decided to use gitlab
- weekly scrums
	- we take turns to explain our code
	- at the first month, much of the work was heavily laied on one team member, who build 60% of the framework (i.e., functions that return dummy data, etc)
	- we refactored this a lot , but I owe lots of success to this guy's starter work, which I've learned a lot throughout the process. 

- peer code review
- CI/CD with lots of unit tests and integration tests. 
	- CI: For every push to the repository, we could create a set of scripts to build and test our application automatically.
	- CD: instead of deploying the application manually, we could set it to be deployed automatically

## Results
- sometimes a correct feature somehow fails all the unit tests and integration tests, and we know that 
- 5 papers. 
	- 3 first-authored, 
		- One best paper. 
	- 2 co-authored, one is a journal paper
	- Finished them in 2 years. 


