---
title: Planning Dive Deep
date: 2022-10-05 23:02:35
permalink: /pages/bbf8f2/
categories:
  - BQ
  - Stories
tags:
  - 
---

## Background

### 时间
phd 3rd year

### 项目内容
- 项目本身的motivation:
	- using code examples to support open-ended programming
- 项目的大概内容:
	- classroom study
	- pre-test -> planning  -> programming -> post-test
	- a group of students had a gallery of code examples, ordered based on their code's state, which they can use. 
	- another group of students don't have any code examples. 
	- compare. 

### 人物
- 我的任务: project lead
- 别的人: advisor
	- master/undergrad students
	- other professors

## Challenge
- I found that while there's no significant difference in two group's pre-test,
	- example group's  final project outcome is better , post-test performance is better, both were having a statistically significant difference. 
- As this is the data I need, I went ahead to write the paper, arriving to the conclusion that my tool has allowed students to build better programming artifacts and learn more about computing. 

[pause]

However, when I was writing the study design, I found that I didn't inspect students' planning documents
- checked planning documents, which includes major scenes, major mechanisms, etc
- I found the example group's planning document is much more sophisticated. 
	- 3 researcher, independent quanlitative analysis/tagging process
	- very time consuming, 80 design docs, 2 weeks for each of us. 

next question: pre-test score the same, why one group does better planning?

[pause]


## Action

I looked at the logs
- I found that many students try to log into snap to try out some functionalities when they make plans
	- control group start tinkering a bit then give up
	- experiment group copy an example, run it, found it work, put it into their plans, causing much more sophisticated, ambitious planning. 

[pause]

after facter in the difference in the planning, I found that the major difference was caused by the sophistication of planning, but not by the presense of examples during programming. 
 
(using glm model)

made the conclusion in the paper that using examples primarily affects students' planning

## Results
- 直接结果： 项目/论文
	- 论文发表，best paper
- future step
	- led to the focus on design and planning
		- I built a new software that completely integrates examples into design process (Idea Builder)
- students
	- Students left great feedback
	- and found the emphasis on design being a really interesting and exciting aspect of the course I ran my study in. 

## Takeaway

dive deep: 
- Stays connected to the details of projects and programs
-   Understands how different groups or systems work together
-   Critically evaluates metrics and data
-   Asks good questions that provide clarity to situations
-   Steps in and gets work done
-   Investigates and get details in order to solve a problem
-   Gathers information to solve a problem, even if it's difficult or time-consuming

