---
title: Leadership Principles
date: 2022-08-30 23:49:51
permalink: /pages/6723e6/
categories:
  - BQ
tags:
  - 
---
## Customer Obsession
Leaders start with the customer and work backwards. They work vigorously to earn and keep customer trust. Although leaders pay attention to competitors, they obsess over customers.

## Ownership

Leaders are owners. They think long term and don’t sacrifice long-term value for short-term results. They act on behalf of the entire company, beyond just their own team. They never say “that’s not my job". 

## Invent and Simplify

Leaders expect and require innovation and invention from their teams and always find ways to simplify. They are externally aware, look for new ideas from everywhere, and are not limited by “not invented here". As we do new things, we accept that we may be misunderstood for long periods of time.

## Are Right, A Lot

Leaders are right a lot. They have strong judgement and good instincts. They seek diverse perspectives and work to disconfirm their beliefs.

## Learn and Be Curious
Leaders are never done learning and always seek to improve themselves. They are curious about new possibilities and act to explore them.


## Insist on the Highest Standards
Leaders have relentlessly high standards - many people may think these standards are unreasonably high. Leaders are continually raising the bar and drive their teams to deliver high quality products, services and processes. Leaders ensure that defects do not get sent down the line and that problems are fixed so they stay fixed.

## Think Big
Thinking small is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Leaders create and communicate a bold direction that inspires results. They think differently and look around corners for ways to serve customers.

## Bias for Action
Speed matters in business. Many decisions and actions are reversible and do not need extensive study. We value calculated risk taking. 


## Earn Trust
Leaders listen attentively, speak candidly, and treat others respectfully. They are vocally self-critical, even when doing so is awkward or embarrassing. Leaders do not believe their or their team’s body odor smells of perfume. They benchmark themselves and their teams against the best.

## Dive Deep
Leaders operate at all levels, stay connected to the details, audit frequently, and are skeptical when metrics and anecdote differ. No task is beneath them.

## Have Backbone; Disagree and Commit
Leaders are obligated to respectfully challenge decisions when they disagree, even when doing so is uncomfortable or exhausting. Leaders have conviction and are tenacious. They do not compromise for the sake of social cohesion. Once a decision is determined, they commit wholly.

## Deliver Results
Leaders focus on the key inputs for their business and deliver them with the right quality and in a timely fashion. Despite setbacks, they rise to the occasion and never settle.


## 35 behavioral questions asked in 95% of Amazon interviews with examples



### 1. Not meeting time commitment
*Tell me about a time when you were not able to meet a time commitment. What prevented you from meeting it? What was the outcome and what did you learn from it?*



**Situation & Task:**
- During my internship with Facebook Feed Ranking team, where I was working on improving our team's PNUF model's offline and online performance, one of the task I needed to do was to add multiple negative-labeled data from another very large dataset. 

- The technical steps to do that is pretty straight-forward - I just find users who only has positive-only labels, and do a join with the original dataset to find the negative labeled samples. Of course there are some other details to handle such as picking only the same amount of positive-labels as the existing negative labels to achieve a balanced sample, etc, but this is the main idea. 

- But the thing is both of the two datasets are very big, and doing a join takes up lots of resources.  
	- I tested it for 1 day and it took 10 hours. 
	- And to put the dataset into the model training pipeline it needs to backfill at least 7 days of data. 
	- so I needed about 3 more days to complete making the dataset. 
	- And model training and offline evaluation takes about another 12 hours. So in total 4 days. 

- It was actually still within the time that I had - my plan was to finish this in a week. But when I was backfilling the 7 days of data, the backfill pipeline stopped at the second day, saying that our team have been way over on computational resource quota, and as a result everyone has a very limited quota that's allowed per day. And I was blocked from running any pipeline for 3 days.  

**Action:** 
- So there are 3 distinct moments where I planned or adjusted the plan for the expected time:
	- first is when I started, while I did not work on the exact same task, I put a week as this is the amount of time that I took for a similar task before. 
	- Second is when I realized that backfilling data will take about 3 days. Since it's still within a week's constraint - although a little tight, I just written them down in my 1-1 meeting note with my manager - about the time needed on backfill, and about the . But since I was responsible for my own project and there's not much I need help from him at that time, I just informed him that this is what's going on, and he thought that is a reasonable amount of time as well. 
	- The third time is when I was blocked at running any pipelines. 
		- I immediately submitted a ticket and reached out to the oncall person for this, 
			- but she did not respond for about half a day. 
			- My manager suggested me to just wait, as the task that I was working on was pretty exploratory and our team do not have launch or production deadlines that depend on it. 
		- But I thought that even if I got un-blocked by the oncall person, I will run into storage issue again if nothing's changed - so I did two things.
			- First I tried to optimize my pipeline. Sadly there's not much I could do other than just a tiny little bit of pre-filtering before the join operations. Just in case there may be other ways that may do, I made a workplace post in our group and tagged a few people to check if my algorithm was efficient enough. Two of my peers mentioned some other  updates, including additional pre-filtering and switch the tables before and after the join operation, so select from the larger table and join the smaller. After the oncall un-blocked me the next day, I found that a test run for one day has been decreased to 5 hours. 
			- So the other thing that I did is that I brought this up to a senior engineer in our team to  resource quota let her know about this resource quota issue that I was experiencing. And she told me that many of our team members had pipelines that are no longer needed - that are still running - she knows about it but just did not have time to resolve this. So I just went ahead and prepared a spreadsheet by collecting all of the pipelines that were running in our team, with the stakeholders' names and the amount of times they were running. The senior engineer then used the spreadsheet to suggest people to shut down or delete pipelines that are no longer needed, and used this to track people's progress.
	
**Result**
		- In just about 2 days and a half I got the amount of resources I needed to finish my runs.  While in the end my task was still delayed for about a day over plan, I have learned a lot about how to simplify sql queries, and helped our team cleaned up lots of unneeded resource space for future operations. 
		- And I was also doing some other tasks in parallel while waiting for resources to free up, so time wasn't really wasted. 


**LP Discussion:**
- Ownership: Leaders are owners. They think long term and don’t sacrifice long-term value for short-term results. They act on behalf of the entire company, beyond just their own team. They never say “that’s not my job". 
- Bias for Action: Speed matters in business. Many decisions and actions are reversible and do not need extensive study. We value calculated risk taking. 




###  Long-term project management
*Describe a long-term project that you managed. How did you keep everything moving along in a timely manner?*


**Situation / Task**
- School research project - building intelligent support for creative, open-ended programming.
	- Very open-ended project: 
		- lots of routes to take, 
		- have no idea how much time each is going to take. 
		- I am responsible of the time, the pacing, and everything. 
		- Supposed to last my entire phd time, so it's easy to make too big or unrealistic of a plan and unable to complete it. 

	- Lots of people. 
		- advisor
		- collaborators from other labs, 5
		- I reached out to a German research lab who are doing similar research. There's about 12 people in the lab but I work closely with 5 of them. 
		- teachers who help us run studies: 3 per semester, one big summer camp each summer
		- masters and undergrad students

**Action**
- Planning: 
	- long-term plan, revisit every semester
	- short-term plan: take it paper by paper. Month by month. 
- People:
	- understanding their needs and goals:
		- everyone needs different things from collaborating on this project. The only way to keep them all motivated and willing to help is to keep them interested, help them get what they need from this project.
		- e.g., undergrads: goal is to learn and work on interesting programming tasks. 
		- junior PhD students: goal is to learn and collaborate on an research.
	- deliver projects that makes sense to them. 
	- keep them motivated, also keep myself motivated when there's setbacks (e.g., something not working as expected. )

**For example,**, refer to achieve goals. (the next question)



**Result**
- I have published 9 first-authored, 4 co-authored papers in my project.
	- one best paper award
	- Each paper is in itself a some-what long-term commitment, so I'm happy to talk about some of them in detail - if you are interested. 
- I have discovered many interesting findings in my research. For example:
	- planning makes the most difference
- I have applied many ML  methods to my area:
	- the first testing framework for visual, interactive programming languages / environments. 
	- execution trace based feature engineering. 


**LP Discussion:**
- Deliver Results: Leaders focus on the key inputs for their business and deliver them with the right quality and in a timely fashion. Despite setbacks, they rise to the occasion and never settle.
- Ownership: Leaders are owners. They think long term and don’t sacrifice long-term value for short-term results. They act on behalf of the entire company, beyond just their own team. They never say “that’s not my job". 
- Bias for Action: Speed matters in business. Many decisions and actions are reversible and do not need extensive study. We value calculated risk taking. 

###  Achieve goal

*Give me an example of a time when you set a goal and were able to meet or achieve it*
 https://youtu.be/ys7fLcH5gpg 

**Situation / Task**
When I was working on  my PhD work, one of the goals I had was to build a code reading software, so that students can read a piece of code backwards,

- a user can record an execution of the  program (including user inputs and graphical output), replay  the output, and select a specific time interval where the event of  interest occurred, to view code that is relevant to this event.

**Action**

#### Backend:
- backend: it needs lots of program analysis infras that I didn't have yet. 
	- In order to understand the chain of code that's responsible or related to a certain piece of code, [program slicing], we need:
		- a dynamic analysis framework, where we know which piece of code is responsible for certain output.
		- a static analysis framework, where we can find the program dependency graph and the control flow graph. 


- because we are using snap, a visual, interactive programming language, - where the primary use of this program is to build games,
	- it gets different comparing to java, where there are existing libraries that does static and dynamic analysis. 
	- so the first step is to build those program analysis infra's . 

- From lots of litterature search I found a lab in a German university doing similar things. 
	- So I reached out to them and started working on the program analysis infras together. 
	- This actually led to 4 projects that I work with them. 2 of them was led by me and 2 of them was led by them. 
		- And of course, 4 papers came out of this the first year after. 
	- And we finished building all of the static and dynamic analysis infras that's needed for the next work - which is actually making a student-centered software. 

#### Frontend
For the front-end, I needed to build a software where 
- play mario, replay, ..., see code. 

I did the following:
- I used two months to finish the first prototype, tested it with 3 students, they all suggested very interesting things:
	- auto-generate timestamps (e.g., this is when mario starts jumping! This is when mario his boomba)
	- auto-generate code slices (some code slices are more oftenly required than others, e.g., (same as above)). When..timestamp, meanwhile, generate code slice. 
	- lots of user experience suggestions - making it load faster, etc. 
	- no instruction experience - how to make it so that they can work through it without using instructions. 

- another month for second prototype, 8 people testing
- another 2 weeks for the final prototype, then ran a controlled study, then writing paper. 


**Result**
- papers. 3 first-authored, One best paper. 2 co-authored. Finished them in 2 years. 
- students said very positive things:
	- participants discussed that the slider bar “makes it  a lot easier finding certain codes”[P13], as alternatively in  Snap!, 
		- “you may have to search through ... each sprite, to ...  find code”[P13].
	- it basically changes the  scope, like instead of having to read through the whole code,  
you can just zoom in on the specific piece you want and look  at that.”
- “I prefer ... looking at [Pinpoint] where the code is divided up. ... I think it is easier to look at how stuff are related that way, instead of just looking at it line by line.”

**LP Discussion:**
- Deliver Results: Leaders focus on the key inputs for their business and deliver them with the right quality and in a timely fashion. Despite setbacks, they rise to the occasion and never settle.
- Ownership: Leaders are owners. They think long term and don’t sacrifice long-term value for short-term results. They act on behalf of the entire company, beyond just their own team. They never say “that’s not my job". 
- Bias for Action: Speed matters in business. Many decisions and actions are reversible and do not need extensive study. We value calculated risk taking. 


### Adjust work priority
*Tell me about a time you had to quickly adjust your work priorities to meet changing demands.*

**Situation / Task**
- working with summer camps in summer 2020 - things became fully virtual. but all of my materials were prepared for in person. 


issues:
- we partner with teachers - we provide the material for them, and come to the camp for a day or two for guest lecture and lead student activities, but they are in charge. 
	- They decide whether we run a study or not, how we run it. In return we could use their students' data for paper writing - of course with IRB (Institutional Review Boards) approval
	- teachers feeling they wanted to cancel our study because of uncertainties in a virtual camp.

- middle schoolers and high schoolers, how to keep them engaged. 
- many group discussions - how to make students in breakout rooms discuss more happily



**Action**
That was during March and April 2020. At that time originally I was preparing for a paper due in May, but because of the fully virtual summer camp I had to spend also half of the time preparing for the camp study materials. 

- finish a first draft plan
- test with students I could find
- rehearsal with another student in front of the camp teachers.
- Found the following:
	- instruction needs to be a lot more detailed
	- make videos ahead of time.
	- recruite volunteers for each breakout room.
	- material needs to be very interesting
	- lots of break time - from one every hour to one every 45 minutes


**Result**
- camp successful. Me and my major collaborator - another student from another lab each finished one paper for our work. 
- **teachers** happy and said happy to work with us again. 
- ***students*** said lots of positive things.
	- feeling increased confidence in programming
	- feeling that they would definitely consider CS in their college
	- saying that working with other students during this summer camp increased the fun. 
	- and said that they shared the awesome games they've built with their parents. 


**LP Discussion:**
- Customer Obsession: Leaders start with the customer and work backwards. They work vigorously to earn and keep customer trust. Although leaders pay attention to competitors, they obsess over customers


### push back 
*an example when you had to push back to HQ or challenged a decision*


**Situation / Task**
- I said no to my advisor about a research project that's outside the scope of what I'm interested in. 
	- advisor: developing support for school assignment-level programming tasks. (closed-ended, e.g., write a sorting function)
	- Me: want to build support for open-ended programming ()

**Action**
- because his idea isn't bad, What I needed to do is prove to him mine is better.
	- I've written down a 3-year plan. 
	- I discussed 5 papers that can came out of this research 
		- I discussed the people that we can involve into this work. (refer to Long-term project management)
		- they ended up to be and 12 and 2 on the way.  8 of them was done by me and the rest were done by lots of PhD students in other labs that we collaborated with. 
- I helped him write the proposal. 

**Result**
- refer to long-term project proposal 

**LP Discussion:**


### Toughest Decision
*Tell me about the toughest decision you've had to make in the past six months*

**Situation / Task**
- I said no to a intern subtask
	- find friends of a user, and based on the dislike history of the friends, generate synthetic data about the dislike history of user. 


**Action**
- I found the dislike history of a group 500 friends, and found that among 2000 shared views among these friends, there is only 1 overlap of dislikes

- As doing this requires lots of join operations (no computational resource), and introduces  lots of bias. 

- I replaced it with a task that I proposed myself, and I brought them to my intern manager. 
	- We spent actually several meetings clarifying things,
	- and some times he did not have the time to fully understand before he jump to another meeting
	- so I even made a powerpoint presentation to explain more clearly.
	- This took a week, while at the same time I was working on my alternative idea.
	- When my manager was fully convinced, my alternative idea was working as well. 


**LP Discussion:**
- Have Backbone; Disagree and Commit: Leaders are obligated to respectfully challenge decisions when they disagree, even when doing so is uncomfortable or exhausting. Leaders have conviction and are tenacious. They do not compromise for the sake of social cohesion. Once a decision is determined, they commit wholly.


### Decision you regret:
*Tell me about a decision that you regret.*

**Situation / Task**

- in 2021 summer, I was working with two undergraduate student in the summer
- one of them was fine earlier on, but gradually becomes no longer accountable - he gradually cannot finish work that he commited to do, and starts to not attending meetings, 
	- answers slack from after a day, to two days, to no longer answering slacks. 

**Action**

- I was afraid of conflicts, so I only slacked him to ask if he is ok, and when we meet in zoom (it was a fully remote summer research program) I asked him if he was ok.
- He came off not very direct or straightforward and only responded that he was fine. I did not know what to do so went ahead and let it be. 

for the works I assigned him, since he wasn't able to finish them on time, or just finish them, I did all of them myself. 

**Result**

- I talked with my advisor about it about a month after wards (he's busy)
- he told me I should have worked harder on him - I should have communicated clearly my needs, and understand his needs better
	- tell him what is not acceptable
	- understand what is it that he may be blocked on
		- lack of interest: change lab
		- feeling sick: we should know.
		- wanted to do it but just don't have lots of momentum because of working from home issue: then host online working sessions, etc. 

- I did it accordingly in the fall when I was working with another student. She also becames a little bit off in the middle or later half of the semester.
	- (they are not paid)
	- she told me she did not finish some work during midterm because of busy school work, but then she felt bad and was afraid that I might be hard on her - so she no longer attend meetings.
	- I told him that not finishing them was fine, and we could adjust work subject or work load to find things that interests her the most. 


**LP Discussion:**

- Learn and Be Curious: Leaders are never done learning and always seek to improve themselves. They are curious about new possibilities and act to explore them.
- Earn Trust: Leaders listen attentively, speak candidly, and treat others respectfully. They are vocally self-critical, even when doing so is awkward or embarrassing. Leaders do not believe their or their team’s body odor smells of perfume. They benchmark themselves and their teams against the best.


### Team / leadership https://youtu.be/Tg6BVRTsuic 
8. What did you do when you needed to motivate a group of individuals?

**Situation / Task**

**Action**

**Result**


9. Tell me about a time you stepped up into a leadership role

**Situation / Task**

**Action**

**Result**


### Team / communication & negotiation https://youtu.be/UJXkaide9bU 
10. Do you collaborate well?

**Situation / Task**

**Action**

**Result**


11. Describe a situation when you negotiated with others in your organization to reach agreement.

**Situation / Task**

**Action**

**Result**


### Team / coworkers https://youtu.be/ZsxkoZdyEcw 
12. We've all had to work with people that don't like us. How do you deal with someone that doesn't like you?

**Situation / Task**

**Action**

**Result**

13. We all make mistakes we wish we could take back. Tell me about a time you wish you’d handled a situation differently with a colleague.
**Situation / Task**

**Action**

**Result**

14. The last time you had to apologize to someone
**Situation / Task**

**Action**

**Result**


### Team / conflict https://youtu.be/Zz8iQ852YMs 
15. Give me an example of a time you faced a conflict while working on a team. How did you handle that?

**Situation / Task**

**Action**

**Result**


16. Tell me about a time when you received negative feedback from your manager. How did you respond?

**Situation / Task**

**Action**

**Result**


### Problem solving https://youtu.be/2XxCUain1IU 
17. Tell me about a time when you missed an obvious solution to a problem

**Situation / Task**

**Action**

**Result**


18. A time when you faced a problem that had multiple possible solutions


19. Tell me about a time when you came up with a new approach to a problem.


20. Describe a time when you anticipated potential problems and developed preventive measures.


21. Describe a situation in which you found a creative way to overcome an obstacle.
Strategy / data https://youtu.be/oRGKHTiM29E 


22. How have you leveraged data to develop a strategy?


23. a time when you were 75% through a project, & you had to pivot strategy


24. Tell me about a time when you had to choose between technologies for a project


25. Tell me about a time you had to deal with ambiguity


### Innovation https://youtu.be/774ovkE2y5I 
26. What’s the most innovative new idea that you have implemented?


### Ownership principle https://youtu.be/Rn3EjvukTkI 
27. Describe a time when you sacrificed short term goals for long term success


28. Provide an example of when you personally demonstrate ownership.
Strength / weakness https://youtu.be/q8fK73QjmbA 


29. What's your greatest strength


30. Biggest weakness
Clients https://youtu.be/OFEUzyB12rE 
I get nervous when I need to speak in front of a large group. In my second year, my Advisor asked me to do a presentation in the joint retreat of our department, and I did it quite bad., I got so nervous and could not understand the questions asked. I realized that this is a big problem for me, so I kept taking English courses provided where you need to present every class. Also, I am TAing many semesters, so the situation get much better. Now I am comfortable presenting for small team, but for large group of people. I am still not sure if I can do it confidently.

31. We all deal with difficult customers from time to time. Tell me about a challenging client-facing situation and how you handled it.

32. How do you show customer obsession?
Failure https://youtu.be/eaUUeFoB9CQ 


33. Tell me about a time you recovered from a difficult situation


34. Tell me about a time you failed and what you learned from it

35. Why Amazon https://youtu.be/H_KGM0i9jkA
The reason that I am interested in Amazon and especially AWS is that I think people here are tool builders. At the beginning, I like Amazon because of kindle. I like reading hardcopy books when I was a undergraduate, but the books are causing trouble when I need to move, and then I found e-readers back in China. But those ones have all kinds of shortcomings, such as the high latency.  
Later I bought kindle and everything goes so smoothly. When I was working on my side projects, I used AWS EC2 and S3, and although I had quite few users, but I know I don’t need to worry even I got many users, because AWS will take care of the scalability for me. Also, I am a new graduate, I want to work hard and learn all kinds of things, and based on my reading, people are saying you can gain more skills in Amazon compared to other companies. 




## skip
### Hire and Develop the Best 

Leaders raise the performance bar with every hire and promotion. They recognize exceptional talent, and willingly move them throughout the organization. Leaders develop leaders and take seriously their role in coaching others. We work on behalf of our people to invent mechanisms for development like Career Choice.

### Frugality
Accomplish more with less. Constraints breed resourcefulness, self-sufficiency and invention. There are no extra points for growing headcount, budget size or fixed expense.